---
id: a6a3d711-5ff7-4f5b-97b1-b3a04b39b7be
blueprint: feed
title: 'Photos from 5 days of off-grid, desert river trippin’'
description: 'Last week I had the immense privilege to go on a river trip with a group of friends in South-Eastern Utah. We floated the Desolation Canyon to Grey Canyon stretch of the Green River.'
categories:
  - creative
updated_by: 25de984e-075a-47a8-8b41-32e9880eb240
updated_at: 1669769614
use_meta_keywords: false
no_index_page: false
no_follow_links: false
sitemap_priority: '0.5'
sitemap_changefreq: daily
override_twitter_settings: false
---
<ul class="grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 gap-3 md:gap-4 list-none pl-0">
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200804_002.jpg" alt="Green River, UT" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200804_001.jpg" alt="Put in Desolation Canyon, UT" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200804_003.jpg" alt="Rowing the Green River, UT" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200804_004.jpg" alt="Finding Shade on the Green River" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_005.jpg" alt="First Camp in Desolation Canyon" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_006.jpg" alt="All smiles in Desolation Canyon" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_007.jpg" alt="Waving while on the river" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_008.jpg" alt="Thumbs up on the river" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_009.jpg" alt="Exploring pictographs" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_010.jpg" alt="Cooking dinner at camp" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_011.jpg" alt="Dutch ovens" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200805_012.jpg" alt="No fires, but we had lights" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200807_013.jpg" alt="The floatilla" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200807_014.jpg" alt="A juvenile black bear" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200807_015.jpg" alt="Dinner on the boats" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200807_016.jpg" alt="Last camp" glide:width="512"}}</li>
  <li class="md:col-span-2 pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/20200808_017.jpg" alt="The group" glide:width="1024"}}</li>
</ul>

Last week I had the immense privilege to go on a river trip with a group of friends in South-Eastern Utah. We floated the Desolation Canyon to Grey Canyon stretch of the Green River. It was an incredibly hot, sunny week for someone like me who is so sensitive to the sun but it was a ton of fun. We had a group of 20 amongst 5 boats, a handful of kayaks, and a standup paddleboard. I picked up a [hard-sided, waterproof Pelican case](https://www.bhphotovideo.com/c/product/83166-REG/Pelican_1150_000_110_1150_Case_with_Foam.html) for my camera so that I would be able to take more photos during the trip without fear of getting my camera dirty or wet. It worked great and was far more convenient to take in and out of the case that stuffing a soft bag into a dry bag. It was especially easy because I got the case with the foam insert that I cut out to fit my camera, batteries, and accessories like a glove. I took about 100 photos a day and managed to carry just enough batteries for the whole trip. Trips like these are the best because we get to just leave the cell phones alone. No connection to the outside world, being totally immersed in a brand new landscape, and being surrounded by some great friends is a great recipe for taking lots of photos that I will look back on for years to come.