---
id: 5b456f6d-bc33-4b5a-b258-950202ec1a1e
blueprint: feed
title: 'A concept for a new portfolio'
description: 'I took a quick stab at a new UI and design theme for my personal website and portfolio (the site that you’re on right now).'
categories:
  - creative
updated_by: 6ab68b5f-4613-467b-99de-86fabe1e1bcd
updated_at: 1670714970
use_meta_keywords: false
no_index_page: false
no_follow_links: false
sitemap_priority: '0.5'
sitemap_changefreq: daily
override_twitter_settings: false
---
<ul class="grid grid-cols-1 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-3 md:gap-4 list-none pl-0">
  <li class="pl-0 m-0 lg:col-span-2">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/homepage-desktop-1.jpg" alt="Desktop version of the new portfolio"}}</li>
  <li class="pl-0 m-0">{{ responsive src="statamic://asset::remote::feed/homepage-mobile-1.jpg" alt="Mobile version of the new portfolio"}}</li>
</ul>

I took a quick stab at a new UI and design theme for my personal website and portfolio (the site that you’re on right now). I wanted to experiment with a few things: 1) a warm-grey color pallet to continue to include my signature orange accent color, 2) a mix between organic and geometric shapes, and 3) a design more centered around my [FCOD](/categories/creative) (first creation of the day, like this) posts. With the portfolio update on the site, I also plan to use and experiment with a few new technologies. I am beginning to dive into the [Tailwind CSS framework](https://tailwindcss.com/) which I plan to use to layout this site. Unfortunately, it doesn’t natively support this particular color scheme that I am after. I also plan to build this site on either the [Sage Starter Theme](https://roots.io/sage/) framework for WordPress or build this site as a headless site in the [Frontity React Framework](https://frontity.org/). I am obsessed with the idea of using a monospace font and a more modern serif font for my portfolio, for obvious developer bonus-points. I decided to go with Sofia Pro and Odisseia. I got inspiration from [Filip Justić on Dribble](https://dribbble.com/shots/11474719-PlusImpact-Hero-Exploration), [Iñaki Soria‘s personal site](https://inakisoria.com/), and [Sarah Dayan‘s personal site](https://sarahdayan.dev/). I like the design (desktop on the left, mobile on the right), but I will likely continue to wrestle with it for the next few weeks. Besides, this is just a starting point!