---
id: 75f68aa0-43f8-45a6-bdcb-ee5d9f10184f
blueprint: feed
title: 'Redesigned Website'
categories:
  - moments
featured: feed/celebration-thumbnail.png
use_meta_keywords: false
no_index_page: false
no_follow_links: false
sitemap_priority: '0.5'
sitemap_changefreq: daily
override_twitter_settings: false
updated_by: 6ab68b5f-4613-467b-99de-86fabe1e1bcd
updated_at: 1670963893
og_image: seo/celebration-thumbnail.png
description: 'I finally finished my website redesign and switch from WordPress to Statamic. Come take a look and let me know your thoughts.'
meta_description: 'I finally finished my website redesign and switch from WordPress to Statamic. Come take a look and let me know your thoughts.'
og_title: 'Redesigned Website // Aidan Weltner'
og_description: 'I finally finished my website redesign and switch from WordPress to Statamic. Come take a look and let me know your thoughts.'
footer_snippets: '<style> picture { display:none; } </style>'
---
I finally finished my website redesign and switched from WordPress to Statamic. I started the project a little over a year ago and set it to the side to finish a redesign of my [Cottontail Creative](https://cottontailcreative.com) site earlier this year. Overall, I'm really happy with it and I'm going to try my best to utilize it more than my old site.

## The Intent
I treated the redesign of the site as if I was building a public, digital archive of my professional life and my interests. My old website was put together when I was unclear as to what my professional life would entail. I used it to showcase my "professional" work but I think it did a much better job showcasing my interests and personality -- mostly because I didn't have a lot of professional experience. Although I still consider myself a multidisciplinary creative, I think I can firmly call myself a designer & developer since that's what I spend the majority of my time doing and how I make my living.

## How to Navigate this site
Now that I have Cottontail where I can advertise my professional skills and portfolio in great detail I'm not as concerned about keeping this site professional and polished. Again, I want to use it as an archive. It's a place where I can document what I want to share publicly with those who might be interested in working with me or just getting to know me. I plan to share whatever I want with little structure. I have set up broad organizational buckets to house projects I've worked on, photography, and writing.

### The Feed
[The feed](/feed) contains posts that relate to any and everything that's interesting or that I've recently learned. Posts fall into one of three categories: Blog, Creative or Moments.
- **[The blog](/categories/blog)** is long-form content about anything I may be interested in, learning, or think is worth sharing.
- **[Creative posts](/categories/feed)** are tests, experiments, daily challenges, warm ups, or other small tidbits worth sharing. This could take the form of virtually any medium.
- **[Moments](/categories/moments)** are milestones, personal achievements, changes, updates, or other adventures.

### Projects
Projects are work-related. They will almost always be development or design work. I have archived some of my older photography, video, and advertising work that was present on my old website and added a few notes and updates. Moving forward I will be adding links to, case studies, or shorter posts about websites I've worked on or businesses I've helped. I am always open to collaborating on something so if you're compelled to reach out, [please contact me](/contact).

### Galleries
My galleries are still a bit of a work in progress. I have moved over old photo galleries from my previous website that were used as general photography portfolios categorized by themes. Moving forward, I will likely post smaller galleries that represent individual trips, outings, themes, or rolls of film. There is a good chance the design will change as well. I still use [Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/aidanweltner) to post photography the most and it's used as my photo archive. You can always check there for more up-to-date images.

## The Design
Since the last time I updated my personal website was more than 5 years ago, I wanted to keep the design really simple, modern, and not too flashy. I've never been compelled to come out with a new portfolio design every year and I doubt my sentiments will change this go around. However, I will undoubtedly make regular changes and updates. I made two versions of the site for light and dark mode. The whole design is based on my monochrome color palette: coffee. I might eventually throw in some orange accents but I really want the content to shine more than anything. I've been experimenting with a more editorial layout for long-form posts like this as well, so stay tuned!

Here's some sites I took inspiration from/ripped off:
- [Chris Portere](https://onepagelove.com/chris-porter)
- [Stammy](https://paulstamatiou.com/)
- [Sarah Dayan](https://www.sarahdayan.dev/)
- [Abdessalam Benharira](https://onepagelove.com/abdessalam-benharira)
- [Rob Hope](https://robhope.com/)
- [Aesop](https://www.aesop.com/us/r/meticulous-hand-care/)
- [Inaki Soria](https://inakisoria.com/)

## From WordPress to Statamic
Aside from the design changes, the biggest change was moving from WordPress to Statamic. [Statamic](https://statamic.com/features) is a Laravel-based, flat-file-managed content management system. It's very developer-friendly and well documented and that was the primary reason I made the switch. The experience has been a pretty big departure from my normal workflow of [building WordPress websites](https://cottontailcreative.com/service/wordpress/) but I have really enjoyed the challenge. I had to learn a [new templating syntax](https://statamic.dev/antlers), get my head out of the "WordPress way" of doing things, and get used to having no database. In all, it was a really nice experience and I hope to bring a few clients on to the platform. I'll likely have more posts in the future about what I learned from Statamic. Right now the repository is public and you can [view it on GitHub](https://github.com/aidanweltner/folio22).

Thanks for dropping by and I hope you have a look around. Feel free to [reach out](/contact) with any questions or suggestions!